Let’s say that you are at a party. A stranger1 comes to you and asks you a question. It’s just a small talk2, something really simple. What can you do to keep up3 with conversation4? Some of these small hints5 can help you for sure! A stranger today, a friend tomorrow, as they say6!

First things first. Greet that person and be sure to do it properly7. It looks strange if you are too formal with your equal8. And it looks even stranger if you act too friendly towards9 your boss! So, if you know this person, you can say ‘Hi!’. Or maybe ‘Hello!’. If you are not familiar with them, it’s better to say ‘It’s nice to meet you.’ Another way to greet someone is to say ‘How are you doing?’ This type of greeting can be used safely10 with almost anyone.

If you don’t know the other person, you must also introduce11 yourself to them. For example, ‘I’m John’, or ‘My name is Sarah.’ Usually12 it is polite13 to introduce yourself first.

You can probably14 find something common15 to discuss16 very quickly. After all17, you both are at the same party! Ask them if they like the party so far18 to keep the conversation going.

If you feel good about it, you can also tell about your hobbies or ask the other person about them. Don’t talk about politics or things you don’t like! The first impression19 you make is very important20. Good memories21 are also important. Some light snacks22 can make any conversation that much better.

If you want to end the conversation quickly, you can say: ‘If you’ll excuse me, please.’ Then quickly go to some other place or a person. And if you liked it, don’t be afraid23 to ask the other person for a way to contact them!

Practice your conversation skills24, acquire25 new words for your vocabulary26, and you will make new friends in no time!


1 stranger (контекст.) – незнакомец;
2 small talk – светская беседа ни о чём;
3 keep up (контекст.) – поспевать, идти в ногу с чем-либо;
4 conversation – беседа, разговор;
5 hints – подсказки;
6 as they say (идиом.) – как говорится;
7 properly – правильно, должным образом;
8 equal – равный;
9 towards – по направлению к чему-либо;
10 safely – безопасно, без волнений;
11 introduce (контекст.) – представить (в контексте знакомства);
12 usually – обычно;
13 polite – вежливо;
14 probably – возможно, вероятно;
15 common (контекст.) – общее;
16 discuss – обсудить;
17 after all – в конце концов;
18 so far (контекст.) – до текущего момента;
19 impression (контекст.) – впечатление;
20 important – важно;
21 memories – воспоминания;
22 snacks – закуски, снеки;
23 don’t be afraid – не бойтесь;
24 skills – навыки;
25 acquire – получить, приобрести;
26 vocabulary – словарь, словарный запас.